Blog: PostHog vs GrowthBook (#6847)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/posthog-vs-growthbook.md

---
title: "In-depth: PostHog vs GrowthBook"
date: 2023-09-29
author: ["ian-vanagas"]
showTitle: true
rootpage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-engineering-blog.png
featuredImageType: full
category: Engineering
tags:
 - Guides
---

> PostHog and GrowthBook share big similarities. Both provide open-source, self-serve feature flags and experimentation. Beyond this, there are big differences:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog and GrowthBook share a lot of similarities. Both provide open source, self-serve feature flags and experimentation. Beyond this, there are big differences:
```

> - GrowthBook is a warehouse-native feature flag and experiments. It focuses on integrating with the product and data tools you already use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- GrowthBook is a warehouse-native feature flag and experiments platform. It focuses on integrating with the product and data tools you already use.
```

- PostHog is an all-in-one product and data platform. Beyond [feature flags](/docs/feature-flags) and [experiments](/docs/experiments), it includes [product analytics](/docs/product-analytics), [session replay](/docs/session-replay), [surveys](/docs/surveys), [CDP](/docs/cdp), and more.

This post goes over their differences, platforms, features, pricing, reporting, integrations, and frequently asked questions.

## How is PostHog different?

### 1. It is an all-in-one platform

> PostHog brings all the tools engineers need for testing, releasing, and measuring the success of new features. Feature flags and A/B testing are only part of a suite of tools PostHog offers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog brings together all the tools engineers need for testing, releasing, and measuring the success of new features. Feature flags and A/B testing are only part of a suite of tools PostHog offers.
```

![PostHog homepage features](../images/blog/posthog-vs-growthbook/build.png)

PostHog combines usage, performance, and behavioral data with flags and experiments. PostHog’s [data warehouse](/docs/data-warehouse) also enables you to pull in data from external sources (like GrowthBook is reliant on).

Having all these product and data tools together enables you to do better analysis of shipped features and make better decisions about what you are building next. 

> ### 2. Built for startups and engineers

Reviewer: Small thing, but I'd change each of these to be a benefit: PostHog is built for startups and engineers / PostHog is easier to setup, etc.

PostHog is built for high-growth startups. This means it is simple for founders and engineers to implement themselves. There are many [SDKs](/docs/libraries), [tutorials](/tutorials), and [docs](/docs) to help you get started quickly with any type of app.

> After setting up, PostHog aligns with startups as they scale up. It  provides tools like advanced product analytics, [SQL querying](/docs/product-analytics/sql), [CDPs](/docs/cdp), and [data warehousing](/docs/data-warehouse) to combine the tools they need into one.

Reviewer: There's a double space here, and the first sentence doesn't really make sense to me (do you mean we scale with them?) Second sentence also repeats 'tools' and could be clearer if it's distinct from the previous point -- though combining tools into one seems to fit with the previous point more.

Author: Rewrote to try to make my point clearer

> Being warehouse native means GrowthBook focuses on later-stage, larger companies than PostHog. Many of their features, like their  analytical A/B testing suite, are great for data teams which also come at a later stage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GrowthBook, on the other hand, focuses only on later-stage, larger companies than PostHog. Many of their features, like their analytical A/B testing suite, are great for data teams which also come at a later stage.
```

Avoid passive voice

### 3. Ease of setup

> GrowthBook requires more setup than PostHog. This is for a few reasons:

Reviewer: These aren't reasons _why_ more setup is required; the are the setup steps which are required.

Would be good to include the why here

            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td>Flags available on frontend application load</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</div>

- **Targeting:** GrowthBooks custom targeting with attributes needs to be set every session and defined in-app before use. It is also only available on the paid Pro plan. PostHog automatically sets its equivalent ([properties](/docs/getting-started/user-properties)) on users. You don’t need to pre-defined them and unlimited custom values are free.

- **[Bootstrapping](/docs/feature-flags/bootstrapping):** PostHog’s JavaScript web SDK enables you to pass flags directly from the backend before the app loads. This makes sure they are available right away and prevents flickering. GrowthBook instead recommends moving the A/B test or flag logic earlier in the page load (server-side) to prevent this.

## Experimentation

Experimentation is where PostHog and GrowthBook’s functionality diverges. Both enable you to create [A/B/n tests](/tutorials/abn-testing) with custom goals and calculate statistical significance. The big difference between them is:

> - GrowthBook’s A/B testing is statistically focused and deeper. It offers frequentist This does require writing SQL queries for integrations with event trackers as well as goals and analysis. It also requires more statistics knowledge to take advantage of.

Reviewer: Second sentence doesn't seem to make sense, and I don't know what 'statistically focused' means -- would be good to spell this out more.

Author: Rewrote

            <td>Create and edit experiments in your app</td>
        </tr>
       <tr>
            <td><strong>Statistics engine</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center">Bayesian</td>
            <td className="text-center">Bayesian, Frequentist</td>
            <td>How the success of an experiment is calculated</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</div>

- **Recommended run time:** PostHog automatically calculates a recommended run time based on past data and minimally acceptable improvements. This helps you avoid the [peeking problem](/blog/ab-testing-mistakes) and end your experiment at the right time.

![Recommended run time calculator](../images/blog/posthog-vs-growthbook/runtime.png)

- **Visual editor:** GrowthBook’s visual editor is similar to PostHog’s [toolbar](/docs/toolbar). It enables you to select an element to modify using an A/B test. The editor is limited to server-side rendered apps.

- **Frequentist engine:** GrowthBook has an additional statistical analysis option. It enables you to compare the control with the experiment using p-values and confidence intervals.

### Reporting and analytics

> Beyond experiment reports built with SQL, GrowthBook offers no reporting or analytics tools. They rely entirely on external event tracking and visualization tools. 

Reviewer: I'd just parse this more directly: 

```suggestion
GrowthBook offers no reporting or analytics tools other than the ability to query experiment reports with SQL. As a result GrowthBook forces users to rely on external event tracking and visualization tools. 
```

            <td className="text-center">3 seats free, then $20/seat/month</td>
        </tr>
       <tr>
            <td><strong>Fully transparent</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</div>

PostHog’s [feature flag pricing](/pricing?product=feature-flags) is pay-per-request (and A/B tests use feature flags). There is a generous free tier of 1M requests per month with all features, add-ons, and integrations available.

![Pricing](../images/blog/posthog-vs-growthbook/pricing.png)

Like PostHog, GrowthBook is free to self-host. GrowthBook Cloud is a seat-based model. It is free for up to 3 users, then $20/user/month. They claim this provides "unlimited traffic," but in reality, the limit is 10M requests per month, after which you need an enterprise plan.

![Growthbook](../images/blog/posthog-vs-growthbook/growthbook.png)

Features, like flag scheduling, permissions, custom fields, and the visual editor are only available on the GrowthBook Pro paid plan. 

> #### Example scenarios

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example scenarios
```

Chef kiss. 

It may be worth changing the header to something more SEOable: "How much does GrowthBook cost?" or "Which costs more, PostHog or GrowthBook?" etc, but I defer to you.

            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td>Alerts for Microsoft Teams</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Zapier</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td>Trigger Zapier automations</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Sentry</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td>Connect to Sentry data</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Datadog</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Capture flag data in Datadog</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</div>

> PostHog’s event-based structure enables you to import data from anywhere for use with flags and experiments. The free API enables you to connect, edit, and capture from anywhere too.

Reviewer: Could be good to add a use-case here.
